# Benefits of Ocean for Data Science

* **Tokenized Ownership and Access Control:** The core benifet of Ocean Protocol is tokenizing the ownership and access control of data assets and services using data NFTs and datatokens. Tokenizing your assets allows them t be nteroperable &#x20;
* **Privacy-Preserving Data Sharing:** Consider a scenario where abundant data is waiting to unveil its potential, but privacy concerns keep it hidden. Ocean's Compute-to-Data (C2D) engine solves this dilemma. It lets data publishers open their treasure troves for computational access without exposing the data itself, creating a novel income avenue while fostering a wider talent pool. Plus, it makes deploying models a breeze! For more information, check out our [Compute-to-Data section](../developers/compute-to-data/).
* **Fine-Grained Access Control:** Ocean Protocol's access control is like a well-tailored suit, offering a perfect fit for each user. Publishers can personalize access to their data, creating an exclusive access list and ensuring data interacts only with approved partners. To learn more, check out our [fine-grained access control section.](../developers/Fine-Grained-Permissions.md)
* **Crypto-Native Payments:** Ocean Protocol's contracts offer the efficiency of crypto payments – lower transaction fees and immediate settlements. It makes transacting as effortless as sipping a cup of coffee, and with zero counterparty risk, it’s a win-win. To learn more, check out our our [asset pricing](../developers/asset-pricing.md) and [contracts ](../developers/contracts/)sections.\

* **Provenance of Data:** Knowing your data's origin story is invaluable, and Ocean Protocol takes full advantage of blockchain's auditing ability. It facilitates a detailed trace of data publishing, metadata alterations, and computational jobs, encouraging trust in data quality. To learn more, check out our [Subgraph section](../developers/subgraph/).
* **Verified Usage Statistics:** With Ocean Protocol, accessing product information is as straightforward as reading a book. Composable subgraphs provide comprehensive details like asset access history, total revenue, and more. It's a two-way street – publishers understand their customers better, and consumers can trust in the asset quality. To learn more, check out our [Subgraph section](../developers/subgraph/).
* **Global Discovery of Assets:** Finding relevant data and models should be as simple as browsing a well-organized bookshelf. Unlike web2 platforms where the host dictates asset discoverability, Ocean Protocol promotes transparency and permissionless discovery of assets. Anyone can tailor their own marketplace, ensuring an open and democratic system. To learn more, check out our [Aquarius ](../developers/aquarius/)and [Build a Marketplace](../developers/build-a-marketplace/) sections.
